draft-schinazi-masque.md, before:

---
title: The MASQUE Protocol
abbrev: MASQUE
docname: draft-schinazi-masque
category: exp

ipr: trust200902
keyword: Internet-Draft

stand_alone: yes
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs]

author:
 -
    ins: "D. Schinazi"
    name: "David Schinazi"
    organization: "Google LLC"
    street: "1600 Amphitheatre Parkway"
    city: "Mountain View, California 94043"
    country: "United States of America"
    email: dschinazi.ietf@gmail.com


--- abstract

This document describes MASQUE (Multiplexed Application Substrate over QUIC
Encryption). MASQUE is a mechanism that allows co-locating and obfuscating
networking applications behind an HTTPS web server. The currently prevalent
use-case is to allow running a proxy or VPN server that is indistinguishable
from an HTTPS server to any unauthenticated observer. We do not expect major
providers and CDNs to deploy this behind their main TLS certificate, as they
are not willing to take the risk of getting blocked, as shown when domain
fronting was blocked. An expected use would be for individuals to enable this
behind their personal websites via easy to configure open-source software.

This document is a straw-man proposal. It does not contain enough details to
implement the protocol, and is currently intended to spark discussions on
the approach it is taking. Discussion of this work is encouraged to happen on
the MASQUE IETF mailing list <masque@ietf.org> or on the GitHub repository
which contains the draft: <https://github.com/DavidSchinazi/masque-drafts>.


--- middle

# Introduction {#introduction}

This document describes MASQUE (Multiplexed Application Substrate over QUIC
Encryption). MASQUE is a mechanism that allows co-locating and obfuscating
networking applications behind an HTTPS web server. The currently prevalent
use-case is to allow running a proxy or VPN server that is indistinguishable
from an HTTPS server to any unauthenticated observer. We do not expect major
providers and CDNs to deploy this behind their main TLS certificate, as they
are not willing to take the risk of getting blocked, as shown when domain
fronting was blocked. An expected use would be for individuals to enable this
behind their personal websites via easy to configure open-source software.

This document is a straw-man proposal. It does not contain enough details to
implement the protocol, and is currently intended to spark discussions on
the approach it is taking. Discussion of this work is encouraged to happen on
the MASQUE IETF mailing list <masque@ietf.org> or on the GitHub repository
which contains the draft: <https://github.com/DavidSchinazi/masque-drafts>.

MASQUE leverages the efficient head-of-line blocking prevention features of
the QUIC transport protocol {{!I-D.ietf-quic-transport}} when MASQUE is used
in an HTTP/3 {{!I-D.ietf-quic-http}} server. MASQUE can also run in an
HTTP/2 server {{!RFC7540}} but at a performance cost.


## Conventions and Definitions {#conventions}

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in BCP 14 {{!RFC2119}} {{!RFC8174}}
when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.


# Usage Scenarios {#usage-scenarios}

There are currently multiple usage scenarios that can benefit from MASQUE.


## Protection from Network Providers {#protection-providers}

Some users may wish to obfuscate the destination of their network traffic from
their network provider. This prevents network providers from using data
harvested from this network traffic in ways the user did not intend.


## Protection from Web Servers {#protection-servers}

There are many clients who would rather not establish a direct connection to
web servers, for example to avoid location tracking. The clients can do that
by running their traffic through a MASQUE server. The web server will only see
the IP address of the MASQUE server, not that of the client.


## Making a Home Server Available {#home-server}

It is often difficult to connect to a home server. The IP address might
change over time. Firewalls in the home router or in the network may block
incoming connections. Using a MASQUE server as a rendez-vous point helps
resolve these issues.


## Onion Routing {#onion}

Routing traffic through a MASQUE server only provides partial protection
against tracking, because the MASQUE server knows the address of the client.
Onion routing as it exists today mitigates this issue for TCP/TLS. A MASQUE
server could allow onion routing over QUIC.

In this scenario, the client establishes a connection to the MASQUE server,
then through that to another MASQUE server, etc. This creates a tree of MASQUE
servers rooted at the client. QUIC connections are mapped to a specific branch
of the tree. The first MASQUE server knows the actual address of the client,
but the other MASQUE servers only know the address of the previous server.
To assure reasonable privacy, the path should include at least 3 MASQUE
servers.


# Requirements {#requirements}

This section describes the goals and requirements chosen for the MASQUE
protocol.


## Invisibility of Usage {#invisibility-usage}

An authenticated client using MASQUE features appears to observers as a regular
HTTPS client. Observers only see that HTTP/3 or HTTP/2 is being used over an
encrypted channel. No part of the exchanges between client and server may
stick out. Note that traffic analysis is discussed in {{traffic-analysis}}.


## Invisibility of the Server {#invisibility-server}

To anyone without private keys, the server is indistinguishable from a regular
web server. It is impossible to send an unauthenticated probe that the server
would reply to differently than if it were a normal web server.


## Fallback to HTTP/2 over TLS over TCP {#fallback-h2}

When QUIC is blocked, MASQUE can run over TCP and still satisfy
previous requirements. Note that in this scenario performance may be
negatively impacted.


# Overview of the Mechanism {#overview}

The server runs an HTTPS server on port 443, and has a valid TLS certificate
for its domain. The client has a public/private key pair, and the server
maintains a list of authorized MASQUE clients, and their public key.
(Alternatively, clients can also be authenticated using a shared secret.)
The client starts by establishing a regular HTTPS connection to the server
(HTTP/3 over QUIC or HTTP/2 over TLS 1.3 {{!RFC8446}} over TCP), and validates
the server's TLS certificate as it normally would for HTTPS. If validation
fails, the connection is aborted. The client then uses HTTP Transport
Authentication (draft-schinazi-httpbis-transport-auth) to prove its
possession of its associated key. The client sends the
Transport-Authentication header alongside an HTTP CONNECT request for
"/.well-known/masque/initial" with the :protocol pseudo-header field set to
"masque".

When the server receives this CONNECT request, it authenticates the client and
if that fails responds with code "405 Method Not Allowed", making sure its
response is the same as what it would return for any unexpected CONNECT
request. If authentication succeeds, the server responds with code
"101 Switching Protocols", and from then on this HTTP stream is now dedicated
to the MASQUE protocol. That protocol provides a reliable bidirectional
message exchange mechanism, which is used by the client and server to
negotiate what protocol options are supported and enabled by policy, and
client VPN configuration such as IP addresses. When using QUIC, this protocol
also allows endpoints to negotiate the use of QUIC extensions, such as support
for the DATAGRAM extension {{!I-D.pauly-quic-datagram}}.


# Mechanisms the Server Can Advertise to Authenticated Clients {#mechanisms}

Once a server has authenticated the client's MASQUE CONNECT request,
it advertises services that the client may use.


## HTTP Proxy {#http-proxy}

The client can make proxied HTTP requests through the server to other
servers. In practice this will mean using the CONNECT method to establish a
stream over which to run TLS to a different remote destination.


## DNS over HTTPS {#doh}

The client can send DNS queries using DNS over HTTPS (DoH) {{!RFC8484}}
to the MASQUE server.


## UDP Proxying {#udp-proxy}

In order to support WebRTC or QUIC to further servers, clients need a way to
relay UDP onwards to a remote server. In practice for most widely deployed
protocols other than DNS, this involves many datagrams over the same ports.
Therefore this mechanism implements that efficiently: clients can use the
MASQUE protocol stream to request an UDP association to an IP address and
UDP port pair. In QUIC, the server would reply with a DATAGRAM_ID that the
client can then use to have UDP datagrams sent to this remote server.
Datagrams are then simply transferred between the DATAGRAMs with this ID and
the outer server. There will also be a message on the MASQUE protocol stream
to request shutdown of a UDP association to save resources when it is no
longer needed. When running over TCP, the client opens a new stream with a
CONNECT request to the "masque-udp-proxy" protocol and then sends datagrams
encapsulated inside the stream with a two-byte length prefix in network byte
order. The target IP and port are sent as part of the URL query. Resetting
that stream instructs the server to release any associates resources.


## QUIC Proxying {#quic-proxy}

By leveraging QUIC client connection IDs, a MASQUE server can act as a QUIC
proxy while only using one UDP port. The server informs the client of a
scheme client connection IDs (for example, random of a minimum length or vended
by the MASQUE server) and then the server can forward those packets to further
web servers.

This mechanism can elide the connection IDs on the link between the client
and MASQUE server by negotiating a mapping between DATAGRAM_IDs and the tuple
(client connection ID, server connection ID, server IP address, server port).

Compared to UDP proxying, this mode has the advantage of only requiring one UDP
port to be open on the MASQUE server, and can lower the overhead on the link
between client and MASQUE server by compressing connection IDs.


## IP Proxying {#ip-proxy}

For the rare cases where the previous mechanisms are not sufficient, proxying
can be performed at the IP layer. This would use a different DATAGRAM_ID and
IP datagrams would be encoded inside it without framing. Over TCP, a dedicated
stream with two byte length prefix would be used. The server can inspect the
IP datagram to look for the destination address in the IP header.


## Path MTU Discovery {#pmtud}

In the main deployment of this mechanism, QUIC will be used between client
and server, and that will most likely be the smallest MTU link in the path
due to QUIC header and authentication tag overhead. The client is responsible
for not sending overly large UDP packets and notifying the server of the low
MTU. Therefore PMTUD is currently seen as out of scope of this document.


## Service Registration {#service-registration}

MASQUE can be used to make a home server accessible on the wide area. The home
server authenticates to the MASQUE server and registers a domain name it wishes
to serve. The MASQUE server can then forward any traffic it receives for that
domain name (by inspecting the TLS Server Name Indication (SNI) extension) to
the home server. This received traffic is not authenticated and it allows
non-modified clients to communicate with the home server without knowing it is
not colocated with the MASQUE server.

To help obfuscate the home server, deployments can use Encrypted Server Name
Indication (ESNI) {{?I-D.ietf-tls-esni}}. That will require the MASQUE server
sending the cleartext SNI to the home server.


# Operation over HTTP/2 {#http2}

MASQUE implementations using HTTP/3 MUST support the fallback to HTTP/2 to
avoid incentivizing censors to block HTTP/3 or QUIC. When running over HTTP/2,
MASQUE uses the Extended CONNECT method to negotiate the use of datagrams over
an HTTP/2 stream {{!I-D.kinnear-httpbis-http2-transport}}.

MASQUE implementations SHOULD discover that HTTP/3 is available (as opposed to
only HTTP/2) using the same mechanism as regular HTTP traffic. This current
standardized mechanism for this is HTTP Alternative Services {{!RFC7838}},
but future mechanisms such as {{?I-D.schwartz-httpbis-dns-alt-svc}} can be
used if they become widespread.


# Security Considerations {#security}

Here be dragons. TODO: slay the dragons.

## Traffic Analysis {#traffic-analysis}

While MASQUE ensures that proxied traffic appears similar to regular HTTP
traffic, it doesn't inherently defeat traffic analysis. However, the fact that
MASQUE leverages QUIC allows it to segment STREAM frames over multiple packets
and add PADDING frames to change the observable characteristics of its
encrypted traffic. The exact details of how to change traffic patterns to
defeat traffic analysis is considered an open research question and is out of
scope for this document.

When multiple MASQUE servers are available, a client can leverage QUIC
connection migration to seamlessly transition its end-to-end QUIC connections
by treating separate MASQUE servers as different paths. This could afford an
additional level of obfuscation in hopes of rendering traffic analysis less
effective.


## Untrusted Servers {#untrusted-servers}

As with any proxy or VPN technology, MASQUE hides some of the client's private
information (such as who they are communicating with) from their network
provider by transferring that information to the MASQUE server. It is paramount
that clients only use MASQUE servers that they trust, as a malicious actor
could easily setup a MASQUE server and advertise it as a privacy solution in
hopes of attracting users to send it their traffic.


# IANA Considerations {#iana}

We will need to register:

* the "/.well-known/masque/" URI (expert review)
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/well-known-uris/well-known-uris.xhtml>

* The "masque" and "masque-udp-proxy" extended HTTP CONNECT protocols

We will also need to define the MASQUE control protocol and that will be
likely to define new registries of its own.


--- back

# Acknowledgments {#acknowledgments}
{:numbered="false"}

This proposal was inspired directly or indirectly by prior work from many
people. In particular, this work is related to
{{?I-D.schwartz-httpbis-helium}} and
{{?I-D.pardue-httpbis-http-network-tunnelling}}. The mechanism used to
run the MASQUE protocol over HTTP/2 streams was inspired by {{?RFC8441}}.
Brendan Moran is to thank for the idea of leveraging connection migration
across MASQUE servers.

The author would like to thank Christophe A., an inspiration and true leader
of VPNs.


# Design Justifications {#design}
{:numbered="false"}

Using an exported key as a nonce allows us to prevent replay attacks (since it
depends on randomness from both endpoints of the TLS connection) without
requiring the server to send an explicit nonce before it has authenticated the
client. Adding an explicit nonce mechanism would expose the server as it would
need to send these nonces to clients that have not been authenticated yet.

The rationale for a separate MASQUE protocol stream is to allow
server-initiated messages. If we were to use HTTP semantics, we would only be
able to support the client-initiated request-response model. We could have used
WebSocket for this purpose but that would have added wire overhead and
dependencies without providing useful features.

There are many other ways to authenticate HTTP, however the authentication
used here needs to work in a single client-initiated message to meet the
requirement of not exposing the server.

The current proposal would also work with TLS 1.2, but in that case TLS false
start and renegotiation must be disabled, and the extended master secret and
renegotiation indication TLS extensions must be enabled.

If the server or client want to hide that HTTP/2 is used, the client can set
its ALPN to an older version of HTTP and then use the Upgrade header to
upgrade to HTTP/2 inside the TLS encryption.

The client authentication used here is similar to how Token
Binding {{?RFC8471}} operates, but it has very different goals. MASQUE does
not use token binding directly because using token binding requires sending
the token_binding TLS extension in the TLS ClientHello, and that would stick
out compared to a regular TLS connection.

TLS post-handshake authentication {{?I-D.sullivan-tls-post-handshake-auth}}
is not used by this proposal because that requires sending the
"post_handshake_auth" extension in the TLS ClientHello, and that would stick
out from a regular HTTPS connection.

Client authentication could have benefited from Secondary Certificate
Authentication in HTTP/2 {{?I-D.ietf-httpbis-http2-secondary-certs}},
however that has two downsides: it requires the server advertising that
it supports it in its SETTINGS, and it cannot be sent unprompted by the
client, so the server would have to request authentication.
Both of these would make the server stick out from regular HTTP/2 servers.

MASQUE proposes a new client authentication method (as opposed to reusing
something like HTTP basic authentication) because HTTP authentication methods
are conceptually per-request (they need to be repeated on each request)
whereas the new method is bound to the underlying connection (be it QUIC or
TLS). In particular, this allows sending QUIC DATAGRAM frames without
authenticating every frame individually. Additionally, HMAC and asymmetric
keying are preferred to sending a password for client authentication since
they have a tighter security bound. Going into the design rationale, HMACs
(and signatures) need some data to sign, and to avoid replay attacks that
should be a fresh nonce provided by the remote peer. Having the server
provide an explicit nonce would leak the existence of the server so we use
TLS keying material exporters as they provide us with a nonce that contains
entropy from the server without requiring explicit communication.

Commit message:

Allow HTTP requests before MASQUE CONNECT

draft-schinazi-masque.md, after:

---
title: The MASQUE Protocol
abbrev: MASQUE
docname: draft-schinazi-masque
category: exp

ipr: trust200902
keyword: Internet-Draft

stand_alone: yes
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs]

author:
 -
    ins: "D. Schinazi"
    name: "David Schinazi"
    organization: "Google LLC"
    street: "1600 Amphitheatre Parkway"
    city: "Mountain View, California 94043"
    country: "United States of America"
    email: dschinazi.ietf@gmail.com


--- abstract

This document describes MASQUE (Multiplexed Application Substrate over QUIC
Encryption). MASQUE is a mechanism that allows co-locating and obfuscating
networking applications behind an HTTPS web server. The currently prevalent
use-case is to allow running a proxy or VPN server that is indistinguishable
from an HTTPS server to any unauthenticated observer. We do not expect major
providers and CDNs to deploy this behind their main TLS certificate, as they
are not willing to take the risk of getting blocked, as shown when domain
fronting was blocked. An expected use would be for individuals to enable this
behind their personal websites via easy to configure open-source software.

This document is a straw-man proposal. It does not contain enough details to
implement the protocol, and is currently intended to spark discussions on
the approach it is taking. Discussion of this work is encouraged to happen on
the MASQUE IETF mailing list <masque@ietf.org> or on the GitHub repository
which contains the draft: <https://github.com/DavidSchinazi/masque-drafts>.


--- middle

# Introduction {#introduction}

This document describes MASQUE (Multiplexed Application Substrate over QUIC
Encryption). MASQUE is a mechanism that allows co-locating and obfuscating
networking applications behind an HTTPS web server. The currently prevalent
use-case is to allow running a proxy or VPN server that is indistinguishable
from an HTTPS server to any unauthenticated observer. We do not expect major
providers and CDNs to deploy this behind their main TLS certificate, as they
are not willing to take the risk of getting blocked, as shown when domain
fronting was blocked. An expected use would be for individuals to enable this
behind their personal websites via easy to configure open-source software.

This document is a straw-man proposal. It does not contain enough details to
implement the protocol, and is currently intended to spark discussions on
the approach it is taking. Discussion of this work is encouraged to happen on
the MASQUE IETF mailing list <masque@ietf.org> or on the GitHub repository
which contains the draft: <https://github.com/DavidSchinazi/masque-drafts>.

MASQUE leverages the efficient head-of-line blocking prevention features of
the QUIC transport protocol {{!I-D.ietf-quic-transport}} when MASQUE is used
in an HTTP/3 {{!I-D.ietf-quic-http}} server. MASQUE can also run in an
HTTP/2 server {{!RFC7540}} but at a performance cost.


## Conventions and Definitions {#conventions}

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in BCP 14 {{!RFC2119}} {{!RFC8174}}
when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.


# Usage Scenarios {#usage-scenarios}

There are currently multiple usage scenarios that can benefit from MASQUE.


## Protection from Network Providers {#protection-providers}

Some users may wish to obfuscate the destination of their network traffic from
their network provider. This prevents network providers from using data
harvested from this network traffic in ways the user did not intend.


## Protection from Web Servers {#protection-servers}

There are many clients who would rather not establish a direct connection to
web servers, for example to avoid location tracking. The clients can do that
by running their traffic through a MASQUE server. The web server will only see
the IP address of the MASQUE server, not that of the client.


## Making a Home Server Available {#home-server}

It is often difficult to connect to a home server. The IP address might
change over time. Firewalls in the home router or in the network may block
incoming connections. Using a MASQUE server as a rendez-vous point helps
resolve these issues.


## Onion Routing {#onion}

Routing traffic through a MASQUE server only provides partial protection
against tracking, because the MASQUE server knows the address of the client.
Onion routing as it exists today mitigates this issue for TCP/TLS. A MASQUE
server could allow onion routing over QUIC.

In this scenario, the client establishes a connection to the MASQUE server,
then through that to another MASQUE server, etc. This creates a tree of MASQUE
servers rooted at the client. QUIC connections are mapped to a specific branch
of the tree. The first MASQUE server knows the actual address of the client,
but the other MASQUE servers only know the address of the previous server.
To assure reasonable privacy, the path should include at least 3 MASQUE
servers.


# Requirements {#requirements}

This section describes the goals and requirements chosen for the MASQUE
protocol.


## Invisibility of Usage {#invisibility-usage}

An authenticated client using MASQUE features appears to observers as a regular
HTTPS client. Observers only see that HTTP/3 or HTTP/2 is being used over an
encrypted channel. No part of the exchanges between client and server may
stick out. Note that traffic analysis is discussed in {{traffic-analysis}}.


## Invisibility of the Server {#invisibility-server}

To anyone without private keys, the server is indistinguishable from a regular
web server. It is impossible to send an unauthenticated probe that the server
would reply to differently than if it were a normal web server.


## Fallback to HTTP/2 over TLS over TCP {#fallback-h2}

When QUIC is blocked, MASQUE can run over TCP and still satisfy
previous requirements. Note that in this scenario performance may be
negatively impacted.


# Overview of the Mechanism {#overview}

The server runs an HTTPS server on port 443, and has a valid TLS certificate
for its domain. The client has a public/private key pair, and the server
maintains a list of authorized MASQUE clients, and their public key.
(Alternatively, clients can also be authenticated using a shared secret.)
The client starts by establishing a regular HTTPS connection to the server
(HTTP/3 over QUIC or HTTP/2 over TLS 1.3 {{!RFC8446}} over TCP), and validates
the server's TLS certificate as it normally would for HTTPS. If validation
fails, the connection is aborted. At this point the client can send regular
unauthenticated HTTP requests to the server. When it wishes to start MASQUE,
the client uses HTTP Transport
Authentication (draft-schinazi-httpbis-transport-auth) to prove its
possession of its associated key. The client sends the
Transport-Authentication header alongside an HTTP CONNECT request for
"/.well-known/masque/initial" with the :protocol pseudo-header field set to
"masque".

When the server receives this CONNECT request, it authenticates the client and
if that fails responds with code "405 Method Not Allowed", making sure its
response is the same as what it would return for any unexpected CONNECT
request. If authentication succeeds, the server responds with code
"101 Switching Protocols", and from then on this HTTP stream is now dedicated
to the MASQUE protocol. That protocol provides a reliable bidirectional
message exchange mechanism, which is used by the client and server to
negotiate what protocol options are supported and enabled by policy, and
client VPN configuration such as IP addresses. When using QUIC, this protocol
also allows endpoints to negotiate the use of QUIC extensions, such as support
for the DATAGRAM extension {{!I-D.pauly-quic-datagram}}.


# Mechanisms the Server Can Advertise to Authenticated Clients {#mechanisms}

Once a server has authenticated the client's MASQUE CONNECT request,
it advertises services that the client may use.


## HTTP Proxy {#http-proxy}

The client can make proxied HTTP requests through the server to other
servers. In practice this will mean using the CONNECT method to establish a
stream over which to run TLS to a different remote destination.


## DNS over HTTPS {#doh}

The client can send DNS queries using DNS over HTTPS (DoH) {{!RFC8484}}
to the MASQUE server.


## UDP Proxying {#udp-proxy}

In order to support WebRTC or QUIC to further servers, clients need a way to
relay UDP onwards to a remote server. In practice for most widely deployed
protocols other than DNS, this involves many datagrams over the same ports.
Therefore this mechanism implements that efficiently: clients can use the
MASQUE protocol stream to request an UDP association to an IP address and
UDP port pair. In QUIC, the server would reply with a DATAGRAM_ID that the
client can then use to have UDP datagrams sent to this remote server.
Datagrams are then simply transferred between the DATAGRAMs with this ID and
the outer server. There will also be a message on the MASQUE protocol stream
to request shutdown of a UDP association to save resources when it is no
longer needed. When running over TCP, the client opens a new stream with a
CONNECT request to the "masque-udp-proxy" protocol and then sends datagrams
encapsulated inside the stream with a two-byte length prefix in network byte
order. The target IP and port are sent as part of the URL query. Resetting
that stream instructs the server to release any associates resources.


## QUIC Proxying {#quic-proxy}

By leveraging QUIC client connection IDs, a MASQUE server can act as a QUIC
proxy while only using one UDP port. The server informs the client of a
scheme client connection IDs (for example, random of a minimum length or vended
by the MASQUE server) and then the server can forward those packets to further
web servers.

This mechanism can elide the connection IDs on the link between the client
and MASQUE server by negotiating a mapping between DATAGRAM_IDs and the tuple
(client connection ID, server connection ID, server IP address, server port).

Compared to UDP proxying, this mode has the advantage of only requiring one UDP
port to be open on the MASQUE server, and can lower the overhead on the link
between client and MASQUE server by compressing connection IDs.


## IP Proxying {#ip-proxy}

For the rare cases where the previous mechanisms are not sufficient, proxying
can be performed at the IP layer. This would use a different DATAGRAM_ID and
IP datagrams would be encoded inside it without framing. Over TCP, a dedicated
stream with two byte length prefix would be used. The server can inspect the
IP datagram to look for the destination address in the IP header.


## Path MTU Discovery {#pmtud}

In the main deployment of this mechanism, QUIC will be used between client
and server, and that will most likely be the smallest MTU link in the path
due to QUIC header and authentication tag overhead. The client is responsible
for not sending overly large UDP packets and notifying the server of the low
MTU. Therefore PMTUD is currently seen as out of scope of this document.


## Service Registration {#service-registration}

MASQUE can be used to make a home server accessible on the wide area. The home
server authenticates to the MASQUE server and registers a domain name it wishes
to serve. The MASQUE server can then forward any traffic it receives for that
domain name (by inspecting the TLS Server Name Indication (SNI) extension) to
the home server. This received traffic is not authenticated and it allows
non-modified clients to communicate with the home server without knowing it is
not colocated with the MASQUE server.

To help obfuscate the home server, deployments can use Encrypted Server Name
Indication (ESNI) {{?I-D.ietf-tls-esni}}. That will require the MASQUE server
sending the cleartext SNI to the home server.


# Operation over HTTP/2 {#http2}

MASQUE implementations using HTTP/3 MUST support the fallback to HTTP/2 to
avoid incentivizing censors to block HTTP/3 or QUIC. When running over HTTP/2,
MASQUE uses the Extended CONNECT method to negotiate the use of datagrams over
an HTTP/2 stream {{!I-D.kinnear-httpbis-http2-transport}}.

MASQUE implementations SHOULD discover that HTTP/3 is available (as opposed to
only HTTP/2) using the same mechanism as regular HTTP traffic. This current
standardized mechanism for this is HTTP Alternative Services {{!RFC7838}},
but future mechanisms such as {{?I-D.schwartz-httpbis-dns-alt-svc}} can be
used if they become widespread.


# Security Considerations {#security}

Here be dragons. TODO: slay the dragons.

## Traffic Analysis {#traffic-analysis}

While MASQUE ensures that proxied traffic appears similar to regular HTTP
traffic, it doesn't inherently defeat traffic analysis. However, the fact that
MASQUE leverages QUIC allows it to segment STREAM frames over multiple packets
and add PADDING frames to change the observable characteristics of its
encrypted traffic. The exact details of how to change traffic patterns to
defeat traffic analysis is considered an open research question and is out of
scope for this document.

When multiple MASQUE servers are available, a client can leverage QUIC
connection migration to seamlessly transition its end-to-end QUIC connections
by treating separate MASQUE servers as different paths. This could afford an
additional level of obfuscation in hopes of rendering traffic analysis less
effective.


## Untrusted Servers {#untrusted-servers}

As with any proxy or VPN technology, MASQUE hides some of the client's private
information (such as who they are communicating with) from their network
provider by transferring that information to the MASQUE server. It is paramount
that clients only use MASQUE servers that they trust, as a malicious actor
could easily setup a MASQUE server and advertise it as a privacy solution in
hopes of attracting users to send it their traffic.


# IANA Considerations {#iana}

We will need to register:

* the "/.well-known/masque/" URI (expert review)
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/well-known-uris/well-known-uris.xhtml>

* The "masque" and "masque-udp-proxy" extended HTTP CONNECT protocols

We will also need to define the MASQUE control protocol and that will be
likely to define new registries of its own.


--- back

# Acknowledgments {#acknowledgments}
{:numbered="false"}

This proposal was inspired directly or indirectly by prior work from many
people. In particular, this work is related to
{{?I-D.schwartz-httpbis-helium}} and
{{?I-D.pardue-httpbis-http-network-tunnelling}}. The mechanism used to
run the MASQUE protocol over HTTP/2 streams was inspired by {{?RFC8441}}.
Brendan Moran is to thank for the idea of leveraging connection migration
across MASQUE servers.

The author would like to thank Christophe A., an inspiration and true leader
of VPNs.


# Design Justifications {#design}
{:numbered="false"}

Using an exported key as a nonce allows us to prevent replay attacks (since it
depends on randomness from both endpoints of the TLS connection) without
requiring the server to send an explicit nonce before it has authenticated the
client. Adding an explicit nonce mechanism would expose the server as it would
need to send these nonces to clients that have not been authenticated yet.

The rationale for a separate MASQUE protocol stream is to allow
server-initiated messages. If we were to use HTTP semantics, we would only be
able to support the client-initiated request-response model. We could have used
WebSocket for this purpose but that would have added wire overhead and
dependencies without providing useful features.

There are many other ways to authenticate HTTP, however the authentication
used here needs to work in a single client-initiated message to meet the
requirement of not exposing the server.

The current proposal would also work with TLS 1.2, but in that case TLS false
start and renegotiation must be disabled, and the extended master secret and
renegotiation indication TLS extensions must be enabled.

If the server or client want to hide that HTTP/2 is used, the client can set
its ALPN to an older version of HTTP and then use the Upgrade header to
upgrade to HTTP/2 inside the TLS encryption.

The client authentication used here is similar to how Token
Binding {{?RFC8471}} operates, but it has very different goals. MASQUE does
not use token binding directly because using token binding requires sending
the token_binding TLS extension in the TLS ClientHello, and that would stick
out compared to a regular TLS connection.

TLS post-handshake authentication {{?I-D.sullivan-tls-post-handshake-auth}}
is not used by this proposal because that requires sending the
"post_handshake_auth" extension in the TLS ClientHello, and that would stick
out from a regular HTTPS connection.

Client authentication could have benefited from Secondary Certificate
Authentication in HTTP/2 {{?I-D.ietf-httpbis-http2-secondary-certs}},
however that has two downsides: it requires the server advertising that
it supports it in its SETTINGS, and it cannot be sent unprompted by the
client, so the server would have to request authentication.
Both of these would make the server stick out from regular HTTP/2 servers.

MASQUE proposes a new client authentication method (as opposed to reusing
something like HTTP basic authentication) because HTTP authentication methods
are conceptually per-request (they need to be repeated on each request)
whereas the new method is bound to the underlying connection (be it QUIC or
TLS). In particular, this allows sending QUIC DATAGRAM frames without
authenticating every frame individually. Additionally, HMAC and asymmetric
keying are preferred to sending a password for client authentication since
they have a tighter security bound. Going into the design rationale, HMACs
(and signatures) need some data to sign, and to avoid replay attacks that
should be a fresh nonce provided by the remote peer. Having the server
provide an explicit nonce would leak the existence of the server so we use
TLS keying material exporters as they provide us with a nonce that contains
entropy from the server without requiring explicit communication.
